well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're gonna talk about
a subject I've been putting off because
I get asked this a lot but it's not
really what most people on this channel
signed up for people that know I have a
survival background they've asked me to
do emergency preparedness videos because
of the hurricanes the earthquakes is
probably the right time to do a basic
one one for everybody and this is stuff
that everybody everybody needs to have
as you probably know and have seen with
your own eyes from the last few major
natural disasters help doesn't come
immediately
it takes time how long it takes depends
on your state and how good your state
agencies are and your local agencies are
because the federal agencies are pretty
much worthless now that that's excluding
DoD's efforts everybody else they'll get
here eventually but you need to have
yourself covered for a few days
depending on the type of disaster
because they're they're not gonna be
here right away so that's what we're
gonna talk about today and this is for
everybody this isn't for survivalists
ISM for Preppers this is for everybody
okay so the first thing water most
important thing okay I would say two
gallons of water per person per day
however long you expect to be without
help and I know people are saying no
well you don't really need that much you
can survive on a lot less you can you
can survive on a lot less than that
however you're gonna want to cook your
you may be able to flush your toilet if
you dump water into it you may need to
clean a wound you may want to wash your
hands you're going to need water
get gallon jugs or if you have
you know like a culligan thing at your
house get some extra 5-gallon things
keep it on hand hmm
people think that you know I've got a
case of Dasani at the house that's
enough it's not it's not even close to
enough you're gonna burn through that so
fast make sure you have water you can go
through and get water purification
tablets or wife straws and that's fine
and it'll work if you're out in the
country if you're in the city that is
not gonna filter out all of the
chemicals that are gonna be in that
water that you're able to find so you're
not gonna want to go that route you want
to you want to have fresh water of your
own food canned goods just get canned
goods you're not looking to eat organic
and healthy and fresh at this you want
the calories that's it and I would
recommend a couple thousand calories per
day per person your you don't have to
eat well you just have to eat if you
have the money yeah get the survival
food get some MREs whatever but at the
end of the day you're just trying to
stay well-fed enough to not deteriorate
until help arrives
that's it fire and by fire this also
includes flashlights okay you obviously
need flashlights electricity is going to
be out but fire BIC lighters Zippo fire
strikers whatever okay
and you want to have multiple ones one
of the big rules of survival is if you
have one you have none because trust me
the second you are down to one of a
particular item that's when it's gonna
break or you're gonna lose it so you
want to have multiple methods of doing
anything a shelter now this is for
people who are sheltering in place why
do you need shelter because something
could fall through your roof or the
structure may become inhabitable so you
want tarps you want mylar tents or
blankets after hurricane Michael I saw
people using the vinyl tablecloths from
the Dollar Tree talk about something
that was cheap
and I mean it wasn't ideal but it kept
the rain off of them I mean I thought
that was very genius so again and this
is just for a few days I mean if you
have the money yet get a tent whatever
but for most people you don't want to
spend a lot of money on this because
most people don't think it's ever gonna
happen to them first aid kit you won't
want to did a whole video on first aid
kits from little baby ones all the way
up to full-blown trauma kits I'll put it
in the in the comments and then you also
want your meds you want your
prescription meds if you're on meds that
you have to have you need to have some
extras a knife and this is where I have
to stop and give advice to people who
are of that mindset who are survival
minded people you've probably given this
exact advice to people before they
didn't take it and you wonder why and
most times I've found out it's because
of the knife what happens is because we
are people who are outdoorsy we camp we
we we fish we you know all of this stuff
and we're outdoors we're working with
our hands we use our knife a lot so when
we recommend a knife what do we
recommend a really good one right they
hop online they go to Amazon and they go
to order an Emerson or a Spyderco and
then all of a sudden their whole lot
less interested in this because they're
about to drop $300 on a knife that
they're gonna stick in a box in the
bottom of their closet you don't need
that you just need a knife I would
suggest more it much more valuable than
a really good filled knife would be a
multi tool like a Leatherman or
something like that and you can even get
a cheap one it's got a knife on it but
it also has pliers and a can opener you
know you're gonna need that it has all
of those other things a Swiss Army knife
this is another one of those items you
want more than one of those because
you're gonna use it a lot it runs a high
risk of getting lost
hygiene not necessary for survival for a
week but it's gonna make you feel better
so hit up Dollar Tree go to the Travel
section deodorants toothbrush toothpaste
soap hand sanitizer all that stuff throw
it in a bag put it with the other stuff
all of this stuff stays together that's
one of the things people say I have all
this stuff in my house that's great but
after the hurricane or the earthquake or
whatever are you gonna be able to find
it keep it all together the last thing
is a battery-operated am/fm whether
would be great radio the Internet's
gonna be down you're not going to get
reliable news except through the radio
when relief does come you're gonna find
out about the pickup points to get
supplies via the radio or from somebody
else who has a radio go ahead and get
your own make sure you have plenty of
batteries for all of this stuff now
special considerations because that's it
this is all you need to to stay ok until
help arrives but special considerations
this is a lesson learned from hurricane
Michael it hit here at a fool because we
were already set with all of this stuff
and our home wasn't really damaged I was
able to go down to Panama City and
helpful relief efforts and people were
like man that's great it's good for you
I'm glad you did that yeah I was down
there doing you know cutting people out
of houses with a chainsaw but my wife
was up here doing the hard stuff because
we had no electricity and we have a
bunch of small children if you have kids
oh please go to whatever cheap little
store is around you the 99-cent store
the Dollar Tree Walmart whatever
and go through and get activities for
them but a build a birdhouse play-doh
coloring books crayons anything like
that that's going to keep them occupied
that doesn't require electricity if you
don't do that your children are going to
cause you more stress than the actual
natural disaster you have to find a way
to keep them occupied they don't
suddenly become adults because there was
a natural disaster they don't really get
what happens and then obviously if you
have pets you need food for them their
meds if they need any water for them as
well that's it that's it there's not a
lot to this and if you have this stuff
on hand you're going to be in so much a
better shape than anybody else this is
all you need it'll be okay now as as as
you start getting into it you're gonna
realize well I also want some rope or I
also want this or you know this this
factory's nearby so I want to make sure
that I have a rubber suit there's all
kinds of stuff that people think of and
that's good because you're developed
like a plan in addition to all of this
stuff anybody that's gonna use it any
money that's part of the plan needs to
know what the plan is you need to know
where you're gonna meet up in a
secondary location in case you can't
meet up with the first one then you need
to have the evac location the place
you're gonna go to if you can't shelter
in place and then a second one and
everybody needs to know about this if
you're discussing it with people that
don't like to talk about this stuff talk
about it like you're preparing for a
zombie apocalypse and they will remember
it it's also less scary if you're
dealing with younger kids not not
toddlers or anything that will be
terrified of zombies but kids are a
little bit older than that but not
really not really they're to the point
where they're actually going to really
grasp at this but they'll remember what
they're gonna do to fight off the
zombies it's also less scary
that's it now to those that wanted the
advance stuff I'll do those videos I
will and I will space them out because
again this isn't what people really
signed up here for but this is something
everybody means if you have this stuff
you're able to help other people because
you're already taken care of and in a
situation like this it's just your
community this is putting on this is
being on an airplane and putting your
mask on before you put the person next
to you before you help them put their
mask on just take care of this stuff and
you're going to be able to help people
and you're gonna be in a much much
better situation and then we will go
into how to bug out and get out of the
area and we'll do a whole other video on
that anyway you guys stay safe it's just
a thought and everybody have a good
night